---
date: 2026-01-10
book: Kvarlevan av esséerna Del 1 - Edgar Cayce
tags:
  - book
  - history
---

## Key Phrase/Quote
<!-- paste quote -->

## My Connection
Given by my mom, written by Mary La Croix, based on Edgar Cayce's readings and the new American Bible. Historical insight how the folk group lived, and how [[Jesus]] lived his first years on earth, as well as the preparations for his arrival.

## Overview
The book mainly depicts the intricacies of teachings and living on the mountain village "Karmel". You get to know the people of note and impact in the communion and the different characters there in great detail. The main plot is about the welcomed, sought after, and vulnerable transition in age. The new age which was prophesied by the priests at Karmel to come with the messias, which of course would be Jesus/Joshua himself. 

## Thoughts
The hiarky in the group of practising priests and teachlings where in clear form connected with what duties that was put upon them. Lowest were the newest members and was doing the more gruesome jobs. But I felt while reading that this structure hinted towards a deeper reason. Like they all was aware of the struggles and lessons to be learned for the lower members. Like they quietly let them go through it, but always there for moral support and there for questions if any arose. But at the same time not shielding them for the difficult. My first instinct was saying that that was a very wise and thoughtful way of letting them learn the soul freeing lessons that only can be experienced. Like patience and humbleness, even in the roughest of situations. My instinct said that this was the way to rise above inner delusions and ego, learning to know them and recognise their presence. It got me wondering - what else of the old ways is there that have deeper meanings, but lost it along the way of human moderness? What have we maybe unintentionally shielded ourselves from that in the long run have hurt us even more? Have we cultivated an environment where the ego can just be living comfortably?

One sidenote that was very prominent in the first part of the book - [[cedar]] tree, was strange how much emphasis was put on the material for the temple and doors and so on, which all way cedar tree. This was immediately noticed and was making me think about what was said about this in [[Ringing Cedars]] book series. There is something about this that is not disclosed, lost knowledge.

The following section is about Enos final say, and when reading it, I felt as if he clearly as day in a very beautiful wat submitted my way of seeing things, as well as thing I have thought about.

## Enos Final Speech
One part in the story that had an impact on me, was when the person Enos, father figure to one of the 3 girls, Judith, the book has as main characters. He was the leader over them and was dying of old age, and she and some more could sense of even "see the moment of his death". Then there was this very wholesome moment with all of them together in the sun, he rolled out in his bed and he had a speech. This is my translation of it: 

"""Enos and the girls had completely forgot about the audience around them. Enos spoke and hit shaking voice was heard clearly over the whole courtyard. The girls were rapt and their up-thwarted faces was sizzling from innocence and childish reverence. Judith swallowed and blinked away tears from her eyes. She forced herself to listen to Enos and noticed that he spoke about the creation, about the human beginning and bout the search after God. "God moved and the [[spirit]] become live. Through the movement arose light and thereafter [[chaos]]. IN this light came the creation from what on earth would be [[matter]] and in the spheres around earth, space and time. Through patience have verything developed through these activities, until the heavens where with all stars, star images and the universe, which it is know as today. Then came the materialistic character like it into the earth, through the [[soul]] that squeezed itself into the matters. The soul was then individualized and then it became what we know as, that we recognize thought each other, individual beings. The soul that uses matter, and that uses every impact on the earth's living conditions to the Creating Forces' honour, participation - and is a part of - the Universal [[consciousness]]. When the being, individual, then focuses the thoughts on itself, it becomes through patience, time and space conscious about its relation to the divine. For God moved and said, "Let there be light," and there was light. Not the light that comes from the sun, but the light that, through which, in which, every soul has and forever have had its presence." - "Remember, that the earth was inhabited by animals before it was by  humans! First there was a matter, around which then was created a fog that then arose up, with the light that spread out over it, when it decided to become a follower of the planets in the universe; when it began its natural rotation, with its different effects on different areas on earth., and when it slowly withdrew -which it is still doing - or drew closer to the [[sun]] , it receives its kinetic energy to wake the element that creates life itself in itself."

-" In that [[form]] of matter, that we see, came the first projections from the animal kingdom; for the thought through bodies took gradually form and the different combinations called themself gods or rulers over herds, birds or fish - and they were partly very similar to the human of today. Their body size took many different forms, from dwargs to giants, for there was giants on earth in this time, upwards four meters tall and well built."

-"In the beginning, when matters was drenched in the holy spirit from the creation's influence, came then humans, in an environment that was made for living by the spirit with a soul, that could become one with the creating [[force]]. When matter was drenched in the spirit emerged from the fact that the soul, separate, had sinned and could only in the matter and flesh' environment showcase properties from the source of good. For the spirit of evil has not, will not be, manifested in matter; it has only been moved by, on or through matter. Just like the process of time have moved itself through, and in matter, it has come to the human, to the limited [[brain]], to become conscious of the inhabitation of soul, spirit and body."
-"Human was created like human. There was and still is, as we see it, just three of the creations - matter, force and spirit. All flesh are not one flesh, but development of it have always lived in the same [[pattern]] and just have developed to to meet the human need, for which all that creates was created. Human developed have only been the gradual growth upward, to the creators spirit. Human was created in the beginning, as ruler over these elements, that was prepared for human needs on the earthly plane. When the plan was so, that human could be accepted by the forces and terms, then human showed on earth's surface. And in the human you can find all that can be found outside it, on the whole earthly plane and on all other planes to. It is the human soul that makes us stand above animal, plant and mineral kingdom on earth. And all beings will not be coming here by [[random]], because earth is a world of causation and on earth intention and impact the natural law. And when every soul goes down on this material plane, it is to meet or give those lessons or truths, so that other can receive more knowledge about that purpose, for which every soul goes down for. In the beginning, as a soul-being, it searches for company of God, but lost this relation through choosing that that could only satisfy and meet the material wishes or needs. That is why human incarnates time after time, to uphold the law, that for the soul in the presence - to become one with Him. All souls was created in the beginning and searches for their way back to were the came."

The tone of Enos voice weaved a magical net of peace. The breeze dies our and the furors heaved its complaining swish. Even the birds that settled on the naked branches among the courtyards' oaks was quiet, just like they to was trying to hear the old priests' words. The only thing able to be heard was a splashing fountain nearby, that played its accompaniment to Eno's voice. The lovely Andra, with her silver-glowing hair interrupted Enos's story and asked, "Are all souls that was created by God in the beginning perfect? If so where in lies the need for development?"
-" The answer too this can only be found in the development of life, in a way that it can be understood by the limited brain, in the first principle or reason, everything is perfect. That part of the [[whole]], that is shown in the creation of souls, can become a living soul and equal to the creator. To reach this position, when you are separate from Him, the soul must pass through all the steps of development, so that it can become one with the creator."

"Is it decided by destiny for every spiritual being to end up becoming one with the creator?"

-"Unless a being wants to be exiled. Like with human, through recieving a could also recieved a will that either could manifest the spiritual or the materialistic in the being. With the will, the being can either spiritually or physically, exile itself. God has not wished that any soul should perish. He gave the will to his creation, human, so that one would be able to become one with Him. Because the meaning of the concept of destiny and law, so is done possible for human through to accommodate the law, to become the law. For the will is the factor that gives the possibility to choose that is development or delay. Like we have so often implied, that it is now today submitted for you, for every soul-being, that is life or death, good or evil. Every soul chooses its path and its way to express itself."

"What is the reason for the creation?"

-"Gods longing for company and a way to be able to express himself."

"Was it originally meant that the souls would remain in earthly forms?"

-"The earth and its utterances were only Gods expression and not necessarily like a rental location for human souls, until human was created to be able to meet the needs of existing state."

Maria (Maria Jesus mom) shyly moved Enos's hand and her voice was as melodical as a silver watch in the clear morning air:
"Is the soul, in its birth, conscious about the physical bodies destiny?"
-"God himself do not know what human will decide for itself to do with itself, otherwise He could have regretted that He had created the human! He gave humans free will, so that it decides itself what to do with its body! Human can bear with itself an ideal in the moment of birth that can determine the destiny. As soon as the humans start to ponder over their own free will, they think about it as a mean to do the opposite of Gods will, even though, in time they understand that only through following Gods will, they find the happiness. They do not understand the concept of serving God, because they considers it as a sacrifice of their free will. Only through suffering and loosing their illusions, in time, space and patience, will they come to the insight that their actual will is Gods will, as in practice is happiness and heaven."

-"What have been given as the most true of all that ever have been written? God do not wish that any soul will be exiled! But the human often listen to this from its own mind, which can separate them from their creator! He has never wished any soul to become exiled, and in the beginning He prepared a path to salvation! Then what is the point of a separation? To be led into an existence, to have the ability to live through the different phases, so that the soul in clear forms can be conscious and attentive for their own separation and its return to itself, through that is passed through in all the different spheres and states of consciousness, thus the separation between lightness and darkness. Darkness, that it hade separated - that a soul had separated itself from the lightness. Therefore He exclaimed that there would be light, and the consciousness began"

Enos raised his face and pointed with a shaking and gnarly hand at the sea blue heaven and the undulating white clouds that drifted up there:
-"We look out and see heavens and stars like the psalmist said: 'The heavens proclaims God honour and the firmament shows His creation, which day after day expresses its completeness from night to night shows its wisdom'."
"""

## The tent in the desert
Another event in the book was about Judith (Jesus first teacher) in the desert in front of the pyramids in Egypt. She was there too secretly travel to the greatest places of knowledge on in the world for scrolls of knowledge to the new library in the salt city, that they where building for Jesus to read and learn about when in proper age. As she stood there lost for words she heard a man suddenly speaking behind her "They are wonderful, are they not?". She had never seen him before, but he even knew her name and she got a feeling that he was known to her. "Peace be with you Judith, welcome to the inaugurated's meeting point" he said. He mystically implied about knowing her and hinting to visions/prophecies according to me. In the shadow of one pyramid they sat down in a tent, overwhelmingly decorated in all sorts of luxury. 
-"Who are you?"
-"My name is without importance, you would anyway not be able to pronounce it."
he said as he smiled. 
-"Why are you here? It seemed like you where waiting for me."
-"I am sent by the brotherhood to tell you about the pyramids and their origin, purpose and and what they will mean for future generations."
-"Of course you know about the history of the creation, how God created heaven and earth, and then developed plants and animals' kingdoms, long before humans arrival to earth. Soul created by spiritual beings, with particles from God himself, in his image and equipped with free will. The souls considered the gradual development of life on earth and basked in the beauty and activity they saw taking place. Some souls where not satisfied with just observing, but wanted themselves to experience the art of being able to create. They started planning themselves in to the material world as 'thought patterns', into stones and trees and lived side by side in different mineral- and life forms, both animal and plant. Under a long time the souls had the ability to come and go as they wished through the earth's different kingdoms, but they were gradually so entangled in their experiments to physical sensations, that they forgot the ability and got trapped. They hardened to the form much like the current human, with an appearance that were a part of their surrounding, somewhat like our times' chameleons. Thus developed the 5 races, the yellow in the Gobi desert, the white in the Carpathians, the black on the slants of Africa, the brown in the Andes, and the red on Atlantis. These souls could, in their gradual development, use the forces that were tangible in their individual surrounding, and the red race on Atlantis developed faster and in a much higher grade than the other races. And remember, that many of these souls inhabited animal bodies as well as the primitive, almost human body. And also remember, that these states developed through eons, of what we know of as time. These souls was to be known as The sons of the Devil, because of their obsession of the physical world, since they had forgot that they were created as spiritual beings, and through that they forgot their creation, also forgot their creator. There was other souls that did not come down to the physical world, but chose to remain in the spiritual kingdom. These souls was called: Sons of the Singular Law, sons of light, and they saw what happened to their brothers on earth and wanted to help them. Led by Adam or Amelius which was his name on Atlantis, presented an archetype they had received from God, as the most perfect body that the souls could use while being on earth. Thus the humanly human body was created. The sons of light with the Law kept the human race pure and did not live together with the sons of the Devil (fallen ones). They used their impact and teaching to get the sons of the Devil to become conscious about, who and what they really were. But as time moved on, the sons of the Devil the daughters of the sons of the light and transferred the properties of liking physical exaggerations of all kinds, to these daughters. The children in these associations (families like [[Nathan Reynolds]] is talking about) become grotesque freaks, part human, part animal, as we know today through legends of satyrs, mermaids and nymphs. These children were called the daughters and sons of the humans. In this land ([[Egypt]]) there also were animal-like creatures, that were fully dominated and controlled by the sons of the Devil. These creatures did all the manual work that was necessary, and their brains only had developed to around the level that our tamed animals have today. They were in way worse distress than the slaves today, because they had no free will nor thought capacity. They were disgracefully exploited and subdued by the sons of the Devil. This caused serious disputes between the sons of the Devil and the sons of light , because the later wanted to free the creature from their slavery and soullessness."

"It is the same in the big picture today. Good versus evil. spirituality versus materialism, sons of light in war against the sons of Darkness. All corruption, oppression, debauchery and lust; covetous and greedy sortie for power and riches were as tangible then as it is now today. Then like now, there were a few good souls, that in the remembering of their creator, fought to set the humans free from being bound to their passions and resend them to their true home, which is with God. The fight continues, but let us return to [[Atlantis]]. The Atlantheans were an striving and intelligent people, that learned to use nature to generate energy through using a sort of [[crystal]]. The force was used for transports, communication and other fantastic, technical intelligence. They could transfer sound and images on the [[aether]] [[wave]]s and they had crafts that could float through the air so well as under the [[water]]. They had wonderful machines that freed the people from laborious work and mourned for their well being and recreation. Everything sound all wonderful, right? And still the humans had then, like today, their problems. In this land and acutually in bigger parts of the world, people were surrounded by colossal, giant animals, that made life on earth miserable and utterly unsafe. Because of this, there was held a meeting by the rulers and the wise men from all nations, to find a way out to free the earth from this torment. The sons of the Devil participated in this meeting and suggested that they should use the 'big crystal', to change the environment that these animals needed to survive. The sons of the light opposed this idea because these method could also ruin the world for humans, but as usual the rulers of the world followed the sons of the Devil. The result of this big experiment was worldwide earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tidal waves which like the world never had seen before. Countries was broken up and the topography of the world changed, thousands of lives went to waste, but the threat from the huge animals remained. The rulers of the world had apparently learnt their lesson and through the following 1000 years fought the animals through customary methods. A different similar catastrophe took place when the [[force]] of the big crystal was cranked to high. Though the whole time period the disagreement grew between the sons of the Devil and Light. Until open warfare unleashed and once again the big crystal was used as an force of destruction. The whole world had become a world of one evil and devastation, chaos and misery, that God solved the problem with human and animal, through shifting the earth's poles and freeze down the animals under a blanket of ice, and lay waste to the decadent land of Atlantis all together. The countries dissolved and fell into the sea and the sea ran over their determined borders and drowned the landmasses that had not sunk, while the dry land showed where before only had been water. It was the '[[Deluge]]' and the end for a civilization."

"Were no one saved?"
"Of course. Many. The sons of Light could see events before every catastrophe took place and there were many that emigrated to other countries to escape, which also drove us here, to the Egyptian land. Around 300 years before the final devastation and flood, was Egypt ruled by king Raai. He was a spiritual and peaceful minded ruler, that had a wide understanding for the universal Laws for the people. He invoked a meeting with 44 priests, many medial persons and astrologists to discuss methods that sped up the human development, both spiritually and physically. His teachings cover many phases of human existence on earth, and these are written in our '[[Book of Death]]'. This king and his queen Isai, that came to be worshipped as [[Ra]] and [[Isis]]. Meanwhile king Raai were on the throne, Egypt was invaded by white humans from the land of Ararat in the caucus mountains, led by their king that also was named Ararat and guided by a priests named Ra-Ta. King Raai had no which to throw his people into a war and immediately resigned his throne to Ararat. Anyhow, some Egyptians rebelled, led by an ararat, and to uphold peace in the land, Ararat established a ruling troika that was consisting of his son, king Araaraat, the Egyptian Ararat and the priest Ra-Ta. Under this troika Egypt arose to become a mighty nation. Many humans from [[India]], Mongolia, and Atlantis emigrated to Egypt to escape earthquakes and devastation that then occurred in their own countries and this made Egypt to a mix of many races. The Atlantheans brought with them many 'animal-like creatures' and many of them viewed even the inborn Egyptians as equals with these creatures.
Under the first part of the troika's ruling, the priest Ra-Ta was employed with invoking spiritual rules and urged to the worship of one God. He built many temples for the masses' spiritual and physical development. He traveled often to Atlantis to learn the lessons and methods that the sons of Light were using and was then familiar with the problems about the animal-like creatures and learned about the corruption in the sons of the Devil. He also learned about the forthcoming floods from the rest of the Atlantis and the need for making historical records about the country. It was during this time that Ra-Ta oversaw the conduct of the Sacrificial- and Beauty temple. These temples were built here, where we now stand and were eventually connected to the [[Sphinx]]."

"What happened to them?" Judith wondered.

"Disintegrated, and in this sphere you can go in and some have already done it. These temples were built for the development of these inhuman mixes of half human and half animal, that were called sons of humans. The beauty temple had the purpose of training them in different occupations, especially art and music. The temple of Sacrifice was used more as a hospital or medical ward, as it is called today. It was here that they began to purify themselves and their children  from appendages like claws, feathers, tails and similar things that differentiated them from human society. Many methods were used to perform these purifications. Surgery, medicines, diet, massages and different treatments. Vibrations from music and colours were used - song, dans, liturgical songs and of course deep meditation where the souls power emerged in function. There was also an intricate process of purification where they used the flames of the altar fire. This was a long process that took between 6 to 7 years and sometimes has to be upkept during multiple incarnations for individual souls, before a full transformation could be carried out. There was a [[gland]], that still exists in the animal kingdom today that must become extinct from the human bodies. The methods that were used would probably be called barbaric, today, but seen in the light of spirituality, then they would be idealistic, purely moralistic. You have to think in terms of souls, where each one goes down on earth, over and over again. Without the use of means like this, to purify the race, then you and me today would probably have bodies with animal legs and feet. A scary though no?
These interventions entailed horrible mental and emotional pangs for the souls. When the purifications were complete, they found themselves separated from their own species, their beloved, and still not accepted in the society with the pure human race, since the carried the pubis of once being one of these odd mixes. And as a part of this experimenting, so it was required for this newly purified body to be married with a human , for in this way establish the behaviour in the child, as the mating would bring forth. This was obnoxious to these souls, because they carried a natural aversion against each other, like you and me would feel if we were forced to marry with an animal out in the field. When these creatures had brought forth a perfect human body and realized that they through this sacrifice made it possible for other souls to go down in a pure tool (body), and a feeling of peace and completeness was predominant, then they could devote themselves to reproduction of a pure race. The battle during that time arose between Ra-Ta and his devotees and the ones that wanted to keep the control over the mixed animal-like creatures and the poor masses, came to crucial point that resulted in exile for Ra-Ta. During 10 years of exile to the Nubian land, Egypt was in a state of constant torment and rebellion and civil war, till the king was forced to recall him to reinstall the peace. It was after his return when the erection of the pyramids and the Sphinx were begun. The big pyramid was built as the Inaugurated's Hall, for the souls that through many incarnations' processes had been cleansed, or purified, from all greediness, hate and lust that they never had to reincarnate on earth again, unless if they did voluntarily for helping their less fortunate brothers, so they also would reach this level of purity.
Ra-Ta determined that with the help of Hermes, through mathematical, astrological and numerical means, as well as inner inspiration, that this place was the earth's center for the natures universal activities and the spiritual forces. Here were the least disturbances convulsive parties, that occurred in earth. You can through careful mathematical calculations of the lines around the earth, see that the center of the earth is right here by the big pyramid. The big stones were cut out by means in the form of the forces and tools used by Atantheans in that time and were placed on by the forces of nature, that gets iron to [[flow]]. Stone flows and floats in the exact same way. The pyramid contains an archive with records of everything that was said by the priests Ararat, Araaraat and Ra.
All changes that occurred within the worlds religious thoughts exist here in the variations in which the journey that this is achieved, from the base to the top, or from the [[open chamber]] to the top. These changes has meaning, both through the layer, colour and how the pyramid is stands in rotation. The meaning of the empty sarcophagus is that there is no death. But do not miss interpret this now! The interpretation will be made easy to understand in a bit!
The Sphinx and the pyramid with the archive hall were built in the same way. The Sphinx's base was lade out in channels and in the corner that is turned towards the great pyramid, there is an inscription about how this was grounded and gives the history about the first invading dynast and how Araaraat took this position. The archive hall is located buried under the sand of time, between or along this entry point from the Sphinx to the temple or the great pyramid, in a separate pyramid. One day, in a coming generation, the records will be found and the humans will once again have the origin to their race. One of these records is about Atlantis, from the beginning of the periods when the soul took form or started to embrace this land, and the development of humans under their stay there, together with the annotation about the first devastation and the changes that took place in this land. There are also annotations about humans stays and their different activities in other countries, all meetings between different nations or countries, and the activities that was necessary during the devastation and the final holocaust of Atlantis, erection of the pyramids for the inaugurated, together with with whom, what and when the discovery of will be made and the copies from the sunken Atlantis."

"What happened with the sons and daughters of humans?"

"They were annihilated by the flood of sins. The ones in Egypt that escaped the larger devastations, were at last cleansed. In some estranged and unknown lands on earth, you can find some remains from this race. Some were very small, dwarg-like humanoids and some extremely large monkey-like giants and some of these holds themselves hidden even today, but just a few,"

"How did it go for the sons of the Devil and where are they today?"
"Everywhere! The world is swimming in them. Thanks to the sons of the Light, they are now incarnated in clean, human bodies, but you can still recognize them from their actions."

"And Amelius?"
"Anelius. It was for his sake that God introduced death in the world, as a mean to escape the world to the spiritual kingdom, to rest, contemplate and assess, before you went down again. Amelius have come a lot of times to the world. He was Adam, Melkisedek, Zend, Ur, Asaf, Jesua, Josef, Josua, and others. He comes for our sake. He will be the one that can bring the world, the earth, back to the source from which it can from. He will soon come again, in these days, to finish what was started in the beginning."

"Messias" Judith whispered.'
"That is right, the soul who is coming to be reincarnated through the virgin Maria is Amelius, or Adam, the Greatest of the Great, the leader of all souls. He comes voluntarily to the world, to conquer the world, so that all souls through his image can do the same and again become one with the creator. He comes as a light to the world and incarnates as the Bridge, Truth and the Light. He will be the First Onlyborn of the Father - The Creator."

"Why are you telling me this?" she yelled.
"Because you have incarnated in the purpose to educate Maria's Son about all that He must know to complete what He started in the beginning. You will be his teacher and guide. There are many of us in the brotherhood, both this and in the spiritual kingdom, that will help you. We are always with you and when the time comes, you will send Him to us."

## Synchronicities
<!-- events that lined up -->

## Cross-References
[[God]] [[Holy Spirit]] [[oneness]] [[emergence]] [[materialism]][[spiritual]]

## Next Actions
<!-- ideas sparked -->

File creation date: 2026-01-10 20:50  
Last Modified: 2026-01-10 20:50